>> Psychedelic-assisted therapy
at the Veterans Administration.
And could hallucinogens
actually improve personality?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Psychedelic-assisted
therapy has recently
gained mainstream
acceptance among civilians.
But what about for members
of the military and veterans?
This therapy may soon be an
option for some veterans.
As Lucid News reports,
psychedelic-assisted therapy
is on the rise at some Veterans
Administration hospitals.
Phase 3 clinical
trials of MDMA therapy
to treat post-traumatic
stress disorder
have been so
successful, with 68%
of participants in remission.
The FDA granted MDMA a
special breakthrough therapy
designation.
But this therapy is
not yet available
all over the country,
prompting more researchers
to call on the VA to create
protocols for MDMA, psilocybin,
and ketamine therapies.
These psychedelics are still
classified as schedule one
narcotics, and it will
take political will
and bipartisan support
to win FDA approval.
If that happens,
researchers at the forefront
of these therapies hope to
see Veterans Administration
hospitals nationwide using
psychedelics to help veterans
by the year 2024.
Could the use of
hallucinogens actually improve
your personality?
A new study published in the
journal Frontiers in Psychology
looked at how psychedelics
affect personality.
Researchers recruited
adults who are planning
on using hallucinogens
in the near future
and asked them to fill
out a survey regarding
their personality based
on the five-factor model
of personality traits, including
extroversion, neuroticism,
openness to experience,
agreeableness,
and conscientiousness.
Participants took the
survey three times:
before their
psychedelic experience,
two weeks after their
experience, and four weeks
after.
The results were impressive,
with people reporting
a reduction in neuroticism and
an increase in agreeableness
even four weeks after
their experience.
Brandon Weiss, a psychologist
at Imperial College London
and the lead of the research,
told Psychology Today,
"first people seem to
report that they were not
as quarrelsome or critical in
their interactions with others.
Second, people
reported that they
were less easily upset by
things and less anxious."
Weiss also pointed out
that despite these positive
outcomes, hallucinogens
can be dangerous,
especially with people who
have pre-existing psychosis.
More data is needed to
confirm the study's findings,
as a large number
of participants
did not follow through
with the entire survey.
But this is more evidence
that hallucinogens
could be another tool to
help with mental health.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.